a) What is normalization and why is it needed?

Answer:-Normalization is a process of organizing the data in databases and refining the table to avoid the duplication of data,inconsistency
and redundancy.Because of redundancy there are various problems creates in database.

Nomalization is a part of Data definition language (DDL).Redundancy is when same data is repeated and stored multiples times in the database 
unnecessarily.Redundancy occurs when we try to keep all th data in the single table. 

To solve the problem of data redundancy and inconsistency we need to decomposing the table into multiple related tables. In normalization we 
split a big table into multiple tables should contains a single field related data only.

with the help of normalization we can refine a big table into multiple taables.


b) What is the 2NF? Explain with an example. You don’t need to draw the
tables or write the queries. Just mention the schema before and after the
third normal form. 

Answer:-2Nf is stands for second normalise for where we can acieved a table in decomposing form but we can not say that with the 2NF we can 
get 100% data inconsistency problem solve.

to understand 2NF we need to understand following concepts:
1.Functional dependency
2.super key
3.candidate key
5.non prime attribute
4.prime attribute

A table with a single column Primary key is automatically in 2NF.
TO BE in 2Nf a table must be in 1 NF and the table must not contains partial dependencies.
The normalisation of 1Nf tabLE To 2nf involves the removal of partial dependencies ,if any partial dependencies exists, we remove it from table.

for example: -if  a table of students contains colums like roll , courseid , fees than in this all the details of student repeated again and again
we can't find uniquely particular student on the basis of the data given.because the fees is depend on the courseid whih is partial dependencies

to solve the above scenario we can divide the table into two or more table and so on we need.